Thank you so much, Dr. Escamia. What a
pleasure to be with you all this
morning. Um, I haven't shook hands
because I'm just a tiny bit under the
weather. So, it always happens around
this time of year, the winds, etc. I
think it's allergies, but I'm slowly
getting over it. Let me thank our media
and IT folks for the great work that
they've done throughout. This is the
fourth one. Have a couple left. Um, so
I'm getting better. Uh, so you all are
in the mi in the middle of this. I'm
getting better at this. Um, as I go
through it, I can't thank Belle enough
for the great work that she's done on
the presentation, our staff, Leslie,
others that are here helping um with
snacks, etc. Um, and they even uh
brought a tray, a small tray for me
because I I dropped my coffee yesterday
at Northwest.
So, so again, let me jump right in. And
again, thank you all for the great work
that you do. My time is your time. So, I
really appreciate the very uh gracious
introduction, but my time is the staff's
time. my time as a student's time, my
time is this community's time. And so I
certainly appreciate the opportunity to
share some of the incredible work that
you all are leading. Uh I want to start
with and jump right in um with Dr. Amaya
and and the great work that he and his
team are doing with regards to um
student and enrollment services. Um and
jumping right into our signature event
on ensuring that our community knows
about the institution, that our high
school seniors realize um we're not
going to give them an excuse. We're
going to go to them while they're there.
We're going to close the deal while
they're still in high school. And so,
this is a signature event that we have.
It started in in March at Harmony. We
we're going to recruit everyone, you
know, charter schools, etc. We're going
to recruit them. We're going to try to
encourage them to enroll in higher ed.
The data is overwhelming. 71% 72% of all
jobs by 2031 will require some
post-secary education or training. And
so we we want to be able to facilitate
this going all the way through um May
the 3rd and that's Tahhano Day. That's
going to be at the Trans Mountain campus
this this time. I'm going to touch on
that a bit more. Um in addition, Dr. M
and his team uh continue to work really
hard on on ensuring that our seniors um
go forward and and utilize Apply Texas
um to to apply for higher education in
the state of Texas. Any public
institution can utilize Apply Texas. So,
it's not us just recruiting for us,
although that's uh a primary objective,
but it's us for recruiting for higher
ed, period, trying to get them enrolled.
As you can see, we had over 8,000
applications by uh October. We were up
to 9,000 by December, then the holidays,
and students are like everyone else. Uh
we had about 65 between December 3rd and
January 9th, but we've now seen it pick
up once again to over 9700 applications.
I'd remind everyone we have about 12,000
seniors in region 19. So, we're doing
extremely well and we're going to
continue to work on that and continue to
move that forward. We need to ensure
that our ISD partners that they take
advantage of dual credit and early
college high school opportunities and
the EPCC roundup uh held on the 27th of
January was a real opportunity for them
to take advantage of those areas and to
ensure that they have that opportunity
to enroll. Uh in addition, high school
counselors are incredibly important. Um
they have access to the student body on
a regular basis. We want to make sure
that they're providing that student body
with accurate information and that they
know about the institution. I shared,
you know, this is my 31st year in higher
ed. Um the time goes by really fast.
Many of our counselors are um longer in
the tooth as I am. And so we want to
make sure they know and they're aware of
all the incredible programming, all the
incredible um programs that the
institution has to offer, all the
investment that we've made in developing
new programs and developing new
buildings uh etc. And so we want to make
sure this provided we had 40 presenters,
88 exhibitors, 460 counselors as well as
40 staff. And we didn't do it alone. we
did in in cooperation with UTEP as well,
but we need to make sure that they're
aware of the college and the incredible
programs that we have to offer. Uh
during the pandemic, um we saw this we
saw a real shift in enrollment um where
the career technical education programs
continue to rise during the pandemic
while academic transfer programs um we
saw some enrollment decreases. The good
news is we're seeing those come back,
but we're continuing to see our CTE
programs um demand for those continue to
increase. Uh so here's a health CTE as
well as STEM event that we held. Um in
addition, we're doing programspecific
recruitment
activities. And so we we did an activity
for nursing. Uh and again, nursing is a
program that we probably don't have to
advertise at all. We're still going to
do that so the community understands.
And I'll share more about nursing as I
go through this presentation, but so
they understand the great programs that
we have. Uh again, I mentioned to Hano
Day that's going to be on May the 3.
Last year it was on May the 4th or May
the 4th be with you. Uh we had a Star
Wars theme. It was great. It was at the
Mission Del Paso campus. I made sure
that I went with my oldest. Um in
addition, we're going to have it at the
Trans Mountain. Dr. Mai and his team
rotate these events. So we're going to
get to each of the respective campuses
as time goes forward. But we're
certainly excited about this
opportunity. Uh and again, it's an
opportunity the students that start the
process during collegebound but don't
quite finish it that we're able to get
them back in and help them finish that
prior to summer as well as the fall
term. Um you know, we have a lot of
services for our students. We need to
ensure that they know about the
resources available to them. uh the
Texas pathway action plan part of it was
to ensure that students knew about a lot
of the services from parent resources to
the tahano mecado to EPCC cares um this
these are events that really ensured and
trying to advertise these trying to
ensure that our students know about them
you can see the results um still not
where we want to be but we're getting
much better um students were unaware of
the food pantry and 23 about 80% of our
students were unaware we were able to
drop that down to about 67%. We're going
to continue to advertise these. We're
going to continue to ensure that
students are aware of
these. Some of the VIA specific events
um obviously we had the fall festival um
that was on the 30th of October. We had
a QEP back to school club fair. Uh we
had breast cancer awareness. Um we had a
chillax before finals. You know, we have
to make sure that we're moving forward
with the lingo of our students. Sounds
like my one of my sons saying that. Um,
we also we also had welcome week. So, we
have campus specific initiatives again
to ensure that our students take
advantage of the services, utilize
everything that's available to them all
in an effort to facilitate their
success. We will continue to move
forward with that. Let me talk about
student government. Really proud of our
student government association and the
great work that they do. They really do
an incredible job of representing their
constituents, ensuring that those voices
are heard, ensuring ensuring that they
have that opportunity to speak on behalf
of students. Um, they were in DC October
10th through the 14th for the national
conference. They were also in in Austin
on February the 3rd. We're in the midst
of a legislative session. I'm going to
share some of that data at the end of
the presentation with you all so that
you're aware. Very transparent of what's
going on in Austin. There's some really
good bills. There's some concerning
bills from my perspective, purely my
perspective, but we want to make sure
that our students are there. I had the
opportunity to testify. I thought I was
done. I chaired the organization in
2023, but I got invited to testify in
front of House Higher Education
Committee this this past month and went
forward and testified. And so
Commissioner Roser was on my left. I
testified. We had Ray Martinez, the
president and CEO of the organization
next to me. And then we had a gentleman
from Texas
2036. We presented our testimony.
Legislature had no questions. And then
they had a student um
testify. And I can tell you that there
was six, seven questions from the
legislators for the students. That's how
important it is for our students to have
their voices heard. That's who the
legislature wants to hear from. It's my
responsibility and I'll continue to
provide information to our legislators,
but it shows you how important the
student voice is. When all the questions
went to the
student, the tano marcado, this is an
incredible initiative that we're going
to continue to work on. We're working
hard to deal with student hunger. It's
changed uh our attitudes towards this
has changed. I've shared with you I lost
15 pounds my first semester in college
uh because I forgot to budget for food
and I wasn't going to call home for
additional resources. Um but we've
learned a whole lot and Sarah Goldric
among others has taught us that it's
very difficult to learn when you're
hungry and so we want to ensure that our
students have that opportunity that
they're able to utilize the services
that we have available to them. I'll
share with you it's it's become a
challenge to to maintain to keep it
stocked. And so I've made a
recommendation to the board to utilize
our student success endowment fund.
That's the $30 million that McKenzie
Scott gifted to the institution. We've
invested that money. We're utilizing the
residue. 90% of that goes to
scholarships. 10% or 9% of that is for
emergencies. What I've asked the board
is to consider utilizing 1% of that
emergency to help stock the Tahano
Marcado. What what's more emergency than
needing food? And so currently that
would be about $30,000. Um that would
help us stock the Medcad significantly.
So we're going to continue to work hard
at this, but I can't thank uh Dr. Mai
and all the team on the great work that
they do with that. um our women's cross
country and half
marathon. Want to uh share information
with them. Uh they're uh their first
time in athletic academic history that
every single one of our athletes has uh
incredible GPA as you can see. And so we
want to make sure that we uh continue to
advocate. I don't see uh I don't see our
athletic director, Coach Edosa, but they
they continue to do great work in
focusing on student athletes being
champions on the track and field as well
as in the classroom. So certainly
excited about that. Um I am thrilled.
This is the 30th anniversary of our of
our baseball program. Um they are 28 and
10. They're having a heck of a season. I
see some of you out there. I see uh one
of my baseball colleagues, a couple of
you all. I'm going to see some hats in
in the audience as well. Really proud of
the great work that they're doing. Um
they're 28 and 10 now. Their upcoming
games are on the 25th and 26. It's
warmer now. Um several of us are out
there when it was pretty chilly. Um but
it's warmer now. It's a great time to be
able to see them and and to see them
really compete and do great work. Um a
lot of enthusiasm. cannot thank coach
Susi and his team for the great work
that they do. Um, our softball team is
just as competitive. They're having a
great season as well. Uh, they are
currently 15 and 13. They have a a
winning record in conference as well.
So, certainly excited about them.
They're also going to be here on the
25th and 26th. So, if you have the
opportunity, the venue is incredible.
Our venues um are first class. Um, so
please try to get out there. The food
trucks are out there as well. Um so
enjoy it. Uh want to recognize uh coach
Inohosa for the great work. He was coach
of the year uh US track and field and
cross country coaches association as
well as the NC the NCJ uh division uh
cross country men's coach of the year.
He does a great job and has done a great
job for a long period of time for our
students, for our community, for our
college. And so want to recognize him.
when you all see him, make sure you let
them know that we had a picture of him
without sunglasses.
Yeah. Uh I want to talk a little bit
about the great work that Dr. Smith and
his team continue to lead in instruction
and workforce education. I'll start with
um Josh Voboos and Mission Del Paso
campus. We continue to see great strides
and great results uh from the 8-week
semester. They're about 85% of their
coursework is offered now in 8week
terms. Um we continue to see enrollment
increase, pretty significant enrollment
increases as well as success increases
and so um kudos to them, excited about
the great work. They continue to do that
and we're going to continue to move
forward and invest in this particular
program. Um Dr. Esamia was very gracious
in her induction. I cannot thank her
enough. Um she led uh the establishment
of our engineering academy in
partnership with UTEP. want to
congratulate her and all of the
committee that worked on this
diligently. We kicked it off in October
of 24. We had 11 of the 12 students that
were successful in their first semester
in engineering. Let me remind everyone
as a as a former wannabe engineer. Um,
you have to be calculus ready. You know,
I mean, I know that college algebra is
the course that we think of with
mathematics for students to be college
ready and it's wonderful course and does
great work, but to be an engineering
major, you have to be calculus ready,
which is two steps above college
algebra, you know. So, these students
are um high achievers. They work hard.
We saw 75% of them persisted from the
fall term into the spring term. Excited
about the progress. We're going to
continue to work hard to increase the
size of this cohort. It is a
dualenrolled program. So they're
enrolled with the college as well as the
university at the same time. So kudos to
Dr. Esami and the team for leading
this. The college hosted uh our 25th
annual special interest group in
information technology education
conference um was focused on the
intersection of technology and ethics.
Um I know in today's society and I'll
talk about hacking and things of that
nature. We need to make sure that we
educate our students on on the good uses
of technology and ensuring that they
utilize that. I want to thank Dr. Savine
and Nadia Kadichev for leading this
effort. Um wonderful event that they
continue to move forward with. Um the
hackathon as that I mentioned earlier,
this was the third one. It was hack the
border 3.0. It's a bational hackathon.
Um again it was held at this campus uh
was organized by Dr. Cervine and Miss
Karachev uh in computer science and its
over 100 participants from El Paso, from
Sidatuarees and from Las Crues. Um they
they focused on this and so again
teaching our students how to utilize
skills for the right reasons for the
good for the right purposes. We'll
continue to move forward with that. I
want to thank Dr. Smith and and Vice
President Flores working collaboratively
together to identify resources within
the budget to be able to provide um
equipment needs for our programs. And so
fire technology, they were able to get a
new fire pumper. This is incredibly
important. These are some of our first
responders. Um, but they were able to do
that and be able to continue to have
state-of-the-art technology so that when
they finish and graduate and they move
into the field that they're very aware
of how to use the equipment that's
available to them. I'm going to touch a
bit on um several of our selective
programs. So that we are an open
admissions institution. I'm very proud
to be open admissions. We have high
expectations for the success of our
students. But we do have a number of
selective programs. primarily in nursing
and allied health. Um, and I want to
speak to those simply because of the
results that we're seeing based on the
great work of our faculty and the
commitment and dedication of the
students in these respective programs.
The physical therapy assistant students
uh had a 100% pass rate in their
certification exams. Uh, in 24 uh they
had a mean score that was seven points
above the national average. want to
thank our our faculty for ensuring that
our students are successful. Um, this
one's really important to me as someone
who's had dental issues in the past. Um,
our dental hygiene discipline is
continuing to do great things. In 24,
they had a 92% success rate, exceeding
the national average uh standard
deviation in 10 different subject areas.
They had a 100% pass rate in the
clinical uh exams. They also increase
their class size by 50%. So to be able
to maintain that kind of quality, that
kind of rigor while at the same time
expanding their class size, phenomenal
work. Can't thank our faculty and
students enough. Our medical laboratory
technology success, they had a 100% pass
rate on the MLT National Certification
Exam. uh this fall semester graduates
they had a mean score of 630 which is
131 points um higher than the national
average. So again incredible work that
they continue to do and cannot thank
them
enough. Thank you.
um the MRT MITR radiology technology
program success they also had 100% pass
rate and I want to highlight that
they've had 100% pass rate 26 of the
last 29 years again incredible work that
our oops I I should hit forward uh
incredible work that our faculty
continues to do our our echo
cardiography program 100% ultrasound
physics exam pass rate this is
tremendous work as well All nine of
those students now qualify for the adult
echo registry exam uh which is up to 60
days before graduating in the spring of
25. Again, we want to make sure and want
to thank our faculty for the great work
that they continue to do. When I was at
the Rio Grande uh campus, we had our
surge tech students that were actually
in the audience. It was good to see
them. Um but our surgical technology
program, they've increased enrollment by
100% starting this spring. Again, we
hear from the hospitals on a regular
basis. Dr. Smith and his team, they tell
us the kind of demand that they're
having. We work to accommodate those
demands. Again, while maintaining the
rigor and the quality of these
respective programs. Want to thank
Margaret Rodriguez, the technology
program coordinator, for the great work
that she does with our students. Um, and
then our associate degree in nursing
program. We had the highest firsttime
pass rate in the region. So all of the
public all of the private institutions
in our community we had the highest pass
rate. Again the quality of our program
is outstanding. Um we in in we had on
the national council lens or examination
or the enclelex the first time pass rate
was 96% for our associate degree
earners. Uh and it was
97.5% for our certificate of completion
of vocational nurses. We added 125
nurses to our community. I've shared
with you all. I don't want C nurses
working on me. I want A nurses working
on me. I know all of you all want the
same and that's the that's the level
that we're producing. So certainly
thrilled with that. Our vocational, as I
indicated, they had a 97 12% pass rate
and they added 40 additional vocational
nurses to our community. So we continue
to meet the needs of our hospitals in
our
community. Again, Mr. Flootus and Dr.
Smith um identified resources within the
budget uh to be able to provide
additional echo cardiography equipment
upgrades. You see that we were able to
add a vascular ultrasound transducers as
well as highfidelity cardiac ultrasound
simulators. I know it sounds easy to
pronounce those, but I've practiced a
lot. Um, but this is important that
these students have access to the the
the the cutting edge technology so that
when they go into the field they know
how to use the equipment
appropriately. Uh, the interprofessional
simulation education center at EPCC's
Rio Grand campus is in the process of
provisional accreditation. I want to
thank Mr. Tomas Sto as well as Sarah uh
Alfala uh and currently working on with
the health and nursing faculty. We
expect provisional accreditation. It
took place in March and we are moving
forward um with those first two
years. Um the interprofessional
simulation center or the IPC at EPCC
again Rio Grand campus a partnership
with EPISD. We need to ensure that our
districts um understand again all of the
incredible programs that we have at the
college. And part of that is exposing
them to the kind of equipment and and
the kind of um programs that we have at
the institution so that they're fully
aware as they're making their choices
for higher
education. Dr. Smith and his team have
done a tremendous job of taking care of
taking advantage of true grants. This is
Texans reskilling and upskilling through
education. Uh we started this program
back in 21 and we've received three
grants totaling just short of
$700,000. We want to make sure that we
take advantage of every resource that
the state has available. And so kudos to
Dr. Smith and his team for taking
advantage of those true grants. Um I I
want to thank uh and congratulate Dr.
Jafari once again. Uh she was uh
nominated and appointed uh to serve on
the student success advisory work group
um with the coordinating board. There
she is with Commissioner Roser. Um and
we look forward to her contributions to
this important committee.
want to thank and congratulate Dr. Sarah
Martinez. She received the Buddy
Davidson grant award. Uh again, it's for
the estab establishment of Apiaries and
Molecular Research on campus that will
benefit our students as well as our
students in the sciences as well as our
community. A grant just short of
$64,000. Um this one's um very um
exciting for me. our culinary arts and
and related sciences, travel and
tourism, hospitality operations are
moving forward with wine making and
brewing implementation. Um not not sorry
not um as big of a wine drinker but I do
enjoy the brewing and this is something
that we've been working on for a long
period of time. Want to thank uh Dr.
Nickerson and his team for the great
work that they've done in establishing
these. Uh I look forward after five of
course uh to sampling uh what they have
come up with. Look forward to it. Cannot
thank our our EPCC fashion technology
program. They've done a great job um
helping students achieve great success,
understand what they'll be up against
when they go into the field. These are
cutthroat fields. Um and so we've had a
lot of alumni who have achieved great
things. that alumni is willing to come
back and provide opportunities and and
insight into the field to our current
students. Uh we've had folks that have
gone on to Los Angeles Apparel, to
Disney Plus, etc. So, we want to make
sure that our students have access to
those individuals as well. Um, you heard
me talk about nursing, you've heard me
talk about all of those allied health
fields as well as our fire tech program,
law enforcement. So you think about the
first responders in our community, we
produce so many of those first
responders in our community and so
certainly thrilled with the law
enforcement training academy. Uh they
will be celebrating their 100th
graduating class in July of this year.
Want to special shout out to Mr. Bogle.
Uh he's celebrating 40 years with the
institution. He did 20 years as a
part-time instructor from 85 to 2005 and
he's been the director for the last 20
years. And so kudos to them. Also want
to thank Dr. Smith and Mr. Flores for
identifying resources again uh to uh
look at renovation for these particular
areas to ensure that um they're up to
speed and equipment, everything in there
is at the best that we can possibly have
it. Um Miss Marufo and her team
continued a great job with the Small
Business Development Corporation. They
had just short of 700 clients that they
counseledled um just short of 4,000
counseling hours and they saw a capital
infusion into our local economy of over
13.5 million. Again, these are community
available uh services that we provide.
Another one is Mr. Admandadis and his
team at the contract opportunities
opportunity center. Um, we had 163
businesses that were counseledled, over
800 counseling hours, almost 1,250 jobs
that were retained or
created. And you see the award total,
354 awards, just short of $59 million of
infusion into our local economy.
Tremendous work. Dr. Smith and his team
are going to continue to develop new
programs uh as we see the demand for
those respective programs. We're looking
at demand both in the field as well as
student demand. And we're looking at
encouraging new program development for
programs that are going to pay our
students at least a living wage. And so
we uh developed an AAS in music
business, an AAS in audio engineering,
and a level two certificate in music
technology program. And so excited about
this. We're currently have 113 students
that are enrolled in these respective
programs. uh and we'll continue to
develop those and move those forward. Uh
initiatives uh this is incredibly
important. I don't see a lot of students
in the audience. Um but for students, we
want to ensure that you are incredibly
involved with your civic responsibility
from my perspective to
vote. And so we have a Tahana Pool
Worker Grant. It's a two-year $49,000
grant awarded by the US Election
Assistance Commission. Um, and it helps
us. It's we're one of 14 national
recipients of the Help America Vote
College Program poll worker grants. So,
we want to make sure that we provide the
information to our students so that
they're educated voters and that they go
out and and again from my uh perspective
utilize uh and move forward with their
civic
responsibility. I want to thank Dr.
Mitchell and Mr. Dwire for their great
work on ensuring that we were able to
reopen our veterans resource centers. We
had grand reopenings for these. On the
30th, we did one at Trans Mountain and
one here at the Vive campus. Um, our men
and women in uniform serve us so well.
We've had a long history with Fort Bliss
in the military. We want to ensure that
our soldiers feel comfortable as they
exit the military coming into our
institution and help them be successful.
um SSP, the student support services
program. Um it's one of the TRIO
programs. Um we're excited about the the
progress that they've made. Um we
received this in December. You see the
overall graduation rate, the transfer
rates, and the persistence rates. These
are these are tremendous programs that
work. Um there's a lot of chatter at the
federal level. I'm sure each of you is
uh keeping up with what's happening at
the federal level. I'm hopeful that
these grants will survive. Um but again
I cannot thank our team for the great
work that they
do. Miss Rodriguez and her team um we
held the EPCC first annual
familyfriendly conference. Um again
we're celebrating student parents
dedication to reach their goals and we
want to make sure that they feel
comfortable on our campuses. Uh it was a
student parent two-day conference held
at Northwest as well at mission in
February. We had almost 300 attendees
and more than 20 agencies that were
available. It's part of our Aspen Ascend
uh initiative. The Aspen Institute
provided a $75,000 grant so that we can
move forward and continue to ensure that
we're serving our students that are
parents as well as we possibly can. Um
again, our colleagues are collaborating
to increase that student persistence. Uh
we have a partnership with United Way
that was initiated in February again to
connect students, faculty, and staff
with community services that are
available to them. We have resiliency
navigators that are available on each of
the campuses one day a week. Want to
make sure that everyone takes advantage
of this as well. Miss Luhan and her team
continue to do a tremendous job with the
first year experience. This has been a
long evolution of this particular
program. We started it in 2009 uh with a
vision of how we could make this uh a
go. In 2016, we received an HSI,
Hispanic Serving Institution Title 5
grant. Um and we were able to establish
an early alert program and this
particular grant is the best
illustration of how we are supposed to
utilize grants. Grants are seed money.
They allow you to move forward with an
idea that we think will work to help our
community to help our student body etc.
And if it does work well the expectation
is that you institutionalize as much as
you can within the budget. Dr. Smith and
his team have done a tremendous job of
institutionalizing the firstear
experience program. You see that we
opened the Northwest firstear center in
October of last year. Uh and then you
see the first one that we opened here at
the Viveet campus in February of 2019.
Again, tremendous job of moving that
forward. Uh Dr. Castillo Tar and her
team did a great job of of EPCC's CARES
grand opening. uh we want to make sure
that uh we continue to move this
forward. It was well represented by
several of our community partners. We
had that in February of this year. Um so
again, want to make sure that every our
student body is aware of these great
services that we have available to
them. Oops, let me go back again. Um Dr.
Smith and his team do a tra a tremendous
job of capitalizing on House Bill 8. So,
House Bill 8 allowed us um not only to
be funded based on outcomes, things of
that nature, but it also allowed us to
be funded for nonredit and short-term
credentials that in the past we'd never
been funded for. Uh we're only going to
offer the credentials again that are in
demand in our community and that are
going to pay our students at least a
living wage. Um I know I have colleagues
that may be offering different kinds of
programs. That's just not in my core and
what we believe in. We're going to offer
programs that ensure a living wage for
our students and that are in demand. Uh
so we've developed significant number of
occupational skills awards. We have new
certificate uh programs. We've done
revised fields of studies. Um you see
the program uh name changes as well. So
again, this is uh an us in an effort to
serve our community, but also an effort
to ensure that we're taking in full
advantage of House Bill 8 and what the
state has to offer.
our STEM fueta program. Again, another
HSI grant that we received. This is a
$1.75 million grant. Um, they continue
to move forward with their pathway
program. We had 250 students from
biology, architecture, and engineering
courses that have
participated. I want to thank Dr.
Jameson, the project director, as well
as our co-PIs, Norah Cavalier and and
Clark Meyers for making this program a
success. Certainly excited about that.
Um, our architecture, art, math, and
science division. We held our second
steam open house. I really appreciate
the A in the arts in the steam. Um, it
was held in February of this year. We
had over a 100 students that attended
with their families. Um, I want to thank
uh Mr. Dalamantes as well as the AAMS
faculty and staff for ensuring that this
program was a success. Let me take a
pause to say we're in the cafeteria. I
remember coming to the cafeteria in my
first year and and providing um state of
the you state of the college as well as
town halls. Um we don't use this as
often as we used to because we have the
flexatorum in the A building now because
we've added facilities. The good news is
it was booked which is good. That means
we're offering more and more uh and this
is still an adequate facility for us to
come together and be able to provide um
an update of where we
are. Um Mr. Paul Hatchkin, tremendous
job. We do live in the desert. We want
to make sure that we understand how
valuable water is. Uh preparing
researchers, extensionists, and
educators for water sustainability. our
preh2 program. We had 31 students that
have participated in internships with 14
local organizations. Again, incredibly
valuable for our community and for us to
develop that understanding of how
important a resource is and that we
utilize, make sure that we we treat it
with respect. um industries that have
visited the the VI verde uh students to
discuss internship opportunities. The
National Renewable Energy Labs came in
in November. Uh Dr. Celiano,
uh Mr. Mrs. Mrs. Ria Shon, Mr. Mendula,
and Daniel Bernal spoke to students
about research projects. We also had the
US Department of Agriculture and&M's
Agra uh life extension come in on
December again to provide insights and
hopefully encourage students to take
these
opportunities.
STEM STEM continues to be incredibly
important uh incredibly important
fields. But I'd also share that um
liberal arts and the humanities have
also increased in the importance based
on the development and expansion of
artificial intelligence. Um but we
understand that we need to ensure that
children have access and they're exposed
to STEM programs at an early age to
develop that um that passion for the
STEM field for them. And so I want to
thank and and congratulate the college
on moving this forward. On February 18th
we held this at the flexiatorum. It was
open to the public. Uh again it was an
opportunity to enhance the STEM
awareness uh in our children early in
their lives. Jose Jesusita, pardon me,
Ivara uh as as well as um Norah Cavalier
led this and certainly excited about
that. Um the Mexican-American Cultural
Center uh want to uh we have moved
forward with this. I want to
congratulate uh Ingred Leva uh as well
as Miguel Valenuela for um the great art
that is being displayed in that for
them. Certainly excited about that.
Again, the talent that we have at the
institution is amazing and thrilled that
we're sharing that talent with the
community.
Um, Dean Daniel Gera, formerly known as
Chef Daniel Gera, he's back in the
kitchen and I'm I'm not happy that it's
on April the 11th. Um, Dean Gera,
because I'm going to be out of town. Um,
and so I'm he's preparing a five course
dinner of his design. uh on April the
11th. Um we have 6 and 6:30m seating,
but kudos to you. Uh look forward to to
whatever you're able to develop. I've
I've heard rumor that there could be
another event with a couple of our
former chefs, so I'll make sure I'm in
town for that
one. I want to talk a little bit about
Dr. Mo and her team and the great work
that they continue to move forward with.
Um the retiree network. You know, we've
had a lot. The college is 56 years old
now. um very proud of the college but
we've had a lot of individuals that have
come and dedicated part of their careers
or all of their careers to the
institution and have chosen to move
forward in retirement. We want to make
sure that they stay connected to the
college. I give Dr. Graham full credit
for um nudging us to move forward with
this um and so we had in October a
retire network social at the Mission Del
Paso campus. We had a retire we're going
to have a retiree brunch in April. Uh as
we celebrate community college month and
so we want to make sure that they stay
connected. There's no better ambassador
for the college than our former
employees. Um want to make sure that we
keep them
connected. I want to congratulate Mr.
Heiny um our marketing director for
graduating from the National Council for
Marketing and Public Relations
Leadership Academy. Um so kudos to to
Mr. Heiny for that great work. Um, our
marketing team continues to do great
work. Uh, we partnership, we partnered
with the QEP and we've more than doubled
views on our EPCC news from about 40,000
to nearly
85,000. Uh, they've distributed an
average of two news release per days per
day rather and promoted more than 110
events. So marketing is not just
advertising the college, they're
advertising the incredible events that
we hold on a regular basis.
Um, Mr. Elliott and his team and grants
continue to do tremendous work. Uh, we
have submitted 44 applications. We have
nearly an 80% success rate, 36 grants
that have been approved. Um, totaling
well over $6.2 million. Um, and so
really want to congratulate Mr. Elliot
and his team for the great work that
they continue to do. Dr. Graass and her
team additional great work that they
move forward with. Um they have more
than $87,000 with 28 community sponsors.
Um they've received more than
$750 scholarship applications for uh for
this coming academic year. Uh and we see
new contributions from uh $19,000 that
Miss uh that Barbara Walker and Cisco
provided to the institution all the way
to Dr. uh Yasmine Flores contributing
$500. It all matters uh and it all is
important for our students and so cannot
thank Dr. Graass and her team for the
great work. We have the oldest nursing
program in this region. Our nursing
program is now 50 years old. Um and we
are going to celebrate that with a
scholarship lunchon that's going to be
on the 7th of May from 11:30 to 1 at the
administrative services center. Um to be
able to raise scholarship for our
nursing students. We have a tremendous
um great program that has been fully
accredited throughout its tenure and so
certainly excited about 50 years of
providing again first responders to our
community. Vice President Flores and his
team continue to work diligently. We're
we're in that phase right now. We're
getting ready to start the budget
process for next year and so cannot
thank him and his team for the great
work that they do. um for 28 um years in
a row they have received the ACT for
award. Uh the acter award is the
certificate of
achievement. It's awarded for the
certificate of achievement for
excellence financial reporting. The
latest one that was available was from
2223 that was recognized by the board in
January of this year. Want to thank
Michy uh Sylvia Delusio uh for their
assistance as well as Daniel Rodriguez
Alvarado uh and then VP Flores and AVP
Zuniga who lead this effort again 28
years in a row I tell them no pressure
but with the expectation is 29 and then
30 etc. But that is tremendous effort uh
and cannot thank them enough for the
great work. Uh we um we had a successful
external audit. Um and so this is Pa,
Brionis, and McDaniel. They presented to
the board in January. Um really
important uh really important and and um
I've worked with the board long enough
where you know I don't want a question
of couldn't you have a finding. Uh we
don't want any findings on our external
audits. And tremendous job by the by uh
Mr. Flores and his team, Mr. Flores, AP
Zunika, Associate Comproller Adunes, as
well as Miss Lopez. Uh financial aid is
a part of this. We distribute well over
60 almost $70 million of PEL annually.
Uh in addition to the student loans and
we we have to ensure and this external
audit ensures that every penny is
expended appropriately. So kudos to all
of them for the great work that they
have done with that.
Um, we contracted with Weaver and
Tidwell, an internal audit services. Um,
we wanted to move forward with some
additional projects. The first one we
asked them to look at was Senate Bill 17
passed in the 2023 legislative session.
We have to ensure that we're in full
compliance. Um, for those of you who
don't remember, uh, Senate Bill 17 is
affectionately known as the anti-dei law
in Texas. We have to ensure that we are
in full compliance with it. And so um
they came in, they reviewed a tremendous
amount of information. They found some
areas on websites that we needed to
correct. We have corrected those items.
Um but we we did this in preparation
because the state auditor's office will
come in and do an audit of the
institution for the same uh area. So we
wanted to make sure that we were um up
to speed on that. Again, Mr. Flores and
AP Zuniga did a tremendous job. uh
Daniel Rodriguez Alvarado assisted and
so we're certainly excited about that.
Um the 32nd annual staff development
retreat where as I mentioned earlier
we're in a legislative session so I was
glad to wish them well as they went to
Austin and I was able to stay home. That
was March 20th through the 22nd. Excuse
me. Their theme was kicking your boot
into gear. And so I asked them to make
sure and they went and visited the
capital to make sure and and pop in on
our delegation, thank our delegation for
the great work that they do on our
behalf, but really important for them to
get to Austin um during a legislative
session. So glad they were able to do
that. I know Miss Melenna Field joined
them and so excited about that. Dr.
Linda Brown uh continues to lead and do
a tremendous job and the committee of
leading uh the leadership academy. Uh
their theme for this year is time, our
most valuable resource. It time goes by
really fast. Um and so they uh they have
several different uh guest lecturers
that are coming in to help with that
topic, including Mayor Johnson, um as
well as the CEO for the YW.CA. And so um
important that we do provide our faculty
and staff with opportunities, uh to have
this to to be leaders in the future.
We held our 16th annual literary fiesta.
Um, you know, reading is fundamental. We
want to make sure that our community is
aware of that. Um, we had, as you see,
Yasmin Ramides as well as Mr. Blevens.
Always good to bring back again. Mr.
Bleven, a retiree. He was able to be a
part of this as well. And books are
gems. So excited about that. Also
excited that the literary fiesta was
featured in uh the city magazine in the
October uh issue of this past year. Uh,
and Dr. Miss Yasmin Ramirez uh was
featured uh for her silver medal at the
International Latino Book Awards for her
memoir, Andale Preta. Um, and so again,
the talent that we have at the
institution is amazing. Want to make
sure that we continue to uh get it out
there so that people can see it. Uh,
Sarella Aguilad does a tremendous job
with our Sun City portfolio day. Uh,
that was held in January of this year.
It was the sixth year in a row. We had
over 400 students that registered to
attend and we had 19 colleges and
universities that parttook in this again
for our students to have access to
college faculty to be able to guide them
as they continue to hone in on their
skills as
artists. Um let let me touch a bit on um
Mr. Fernandez and his team and what it
is continuing to move forward at the
institution. Um they're moving forward
with their Windows operating system
upgrade. Uh this uh the tech support
team has completed about half of the
Windows operating upgrade. Um they
expect to complete that work by the end
of the year. Again, important work that
we need to ensure uh the security of our
systems. Um our data uh dedicated
service servers rather they're moving
forward with that as well. they have
successfully deployed dedicated service
for the Calibro system and the
organization's database system. Uh
again, ensuring the protection that we
have the the the most upto-date
equipment and that we're protecting that
equipment. Um in addition, uh I want to
thank Mr. Fernandez and his team for
providing more and more services online
and virtually.
Um, the ID card portal will allow
students and employees to access their
ID cards online. Each of you know so
many of these different initiatives are
now available online. We want to make
sure that we're continuing to keep up
with that. Kudos uh to Mr. Fernandez and
his team for moving that forward. Um,
our enterprise computing, I was talking
to a couple of folks that were just at
the national conference for the
enterprise computing or the
administrative banner 8. Um they've done
a lot of work on uh on custom forms on
moving these forward. They converted 41
custom banner aid forms to modern
userfriendly web-based applications. Um
these range from specialized admissions
to the prep program as well as online
employee contracts. Again, um tremendous
effort to make sure that we continue to
move this forward. Um, and then
finally, they've also worked diligently
on our enterprise computing or PowerBI.
I have PowerBI on my on my iPad. It's
one of the first things I look at daily
is just to see where we are, what the
data looks like at the institution. Um,
they were able to pull the pathways and
technology early college high school
students or the PEK students out so that
we're able to track them separately from
the early college high school students.
Um and so we now have that ability to do
that. This is the fastest growing
segment at the institution and we can
keep up with their success rates um via
PowerBI. Um they've also continue to
work on uh our in-house productions from
EPCC TV. Everything from the arts at
EPCC all the way to BIS talks you see
mature living creative thinkers etc. So
kudos to them for continuing and
ensuring that these programs continue to
move forward. Dr. Penley and her team uh
doing great work in research
accreditation and planning. Um we this
year is uh the end of our current
strategic plan. We are getting ready to
launch our new strategic plan that will
go from the fall of 2025 into uh through
2029.
Um we have a new vision statement as
well as a new mission statement. Uh you
get a an early look at those and
actually you helped develop those. So
thank you all for doing that. Um they
are excellent vision and mission
statements. They are also compliant with
SB17 as you can see. Um but it's
important for us to continue to move
this work forward. So I cannot thank Dr.
Penny and her team for the great work
that they do. Um my watch is telling me
that I need to stand and I am standing.
Um so let me put my arm down so I get
credit for standing. Um in addition um
Dr. Penny and her team continue to lead
uh the pathways project. Um we have four
pillars. Uh we have entry progress
completion and career whether that's
going straight into the workforce or to
transfer to university to continue your
studies. Uh we have co-leads for each of
these areas. We have one who's an owner
or works in that particular area and
then we have one from outside of that
area. What we're trying to do is ensure
that that all of the college is aware of
each of these different um areas and is
willing to participate. And so I want to
thank them for that great work. So for
instance on entry they're they're
looking at customer service survey that
was launched in in April. It's launched
this month. uh they're examining service
uh experiences of all students with a
focus on online and non-traditional
students. All of these are an effort to
get better. You see what progress is
focused on as
[Music]
well. Um you also see what completion is
focused on the student drop data and
qualitative responses. Again, we're
focused on the communication needs of
non-traditional students. Want to make
sure that we're serving all of our
students extremely well. Uh, Miss Bell
and her team continue to move forward
with learning assessment, outcomes
assessment. Um, and we're looking at a
wellness check for general education
that will be completed this spring. Uh,
and then entry student success
initiatives that are being reviewed in
the spring. And so again, cannot thank
them enough for the great work that they
do. Want to touch a little bit on
enrollment. Um, so this is fall
data. We saw, I'll remind everyone, it
seems so long ago, but in the fall of
20, we had a significant hit to
enrollment due to the pandemic. In the
fall of 21, we saw another um hit to
enrollment, not quite as large, but in
the fall of 22, we started to see it
reverse. And we've seen and we've worked
really hard um all of us led by Dr. Mia
and his team of ensuring that enrollment
continues to come back. So, we saw about
a 1% gain in the fall of 22, uh, a 2%
gain in the fall of 23, uh, about a
half% gain in the fall of 24. And let me
share that this spring, we saw a 5%
increase in enrollment this spring. So,
that is a that to me is a really good
sign. I'm hopeful that that will carry
into into summer and fall. But, we're
seeing um not only career technical
programs, we saw a significant increase
in our academic transfer programs as
well. So, it's good to see that. I get a
little nervous because community college
enrollment traditionally has a um direct
relationship with the economy and so if
enrollment's starting to build back, I
worry that the economy might be a little
weak. Um but I will take the enrollment.
So certainly excited about that. Um and
we're also seeing our success rates get
back to prepandemic levels. Um so um
persistence from fall to spring went
from 77 to 78 to 81%. So great work by
our faculty, our staff, everyone at the
institution who continues to focus on
this incredibly important. It is a
legislative
session. Uh so I want to provide some
state and legislative updates to you
all. Uh the first is Dr. Win Roser. Uh
Dr. Win Roser is the new commissioner of
higher education. Got appointed in um
late December. Uh started officially in
January. I I don't I I I I'm sure I
shared with you. I was asked to serve on
the advisory committee. So, um Jay
Hartzell, the former president of UT
Austin, myself and and James Hallmark,
uh the vice chancellor of academic
affairs for the&m system. Uh we served
with the chair of the coordinating
board, the vice chair, and the
secretary. We recruited uh we did our
best to recruit um individuals to serve
as commissioner or to consider serving
as commissioner. I did reach out to Dr.
Roser. We have a long history. He knows
our institution well. He's a deep
thinker and has was a longtime uh
university administrator. He knows the
college very well and he knows community
colleges very well. He was one of our
commencement speakers back in I think
2014. Um let me also provide Dr. Roser a
lot of kudos. This is a real calling for
him. He took a 40% pay cut to serve as
commissioner of higher education. It's
our it's my expectation that uh my
colleagues and I as well as everyone we
help him be successful uh and we're
going to continue to move forward. But
he has hit the ground running um in a
legislative session and so he's doing a
great job. I'm certainly excited about
that. Um I'd remind you the the themes
that came out of House Bill 8 um from
the 2023 session were funding for
outcomes, affordability for students,
and investments in capacity. Um the key
components of House Bill 8 were fast,
our financial aid for Swift transfer,
shared services, performance tier, which
is 100% of our funding. So 95% of the
state's funding is performance tier, but
for EPCC, it's 100% of our funding. Base
tier is 5% for the 22 colleges that are
small that don't have significant tax
bases. So that gets distributed to them.
And then finally, the community college
standing advisory committee. Um I'm the
inaugural chair. I'll serve in that
capacity until next year and then
they'll move forward with another chair.
Our our focus areas for this session
were the first the supplemental
appropriations request. So we have a
dynamic system. So we get funded on
projections. Here's how you we think
you're going to do based on what you've
done. And then we have a settle process
on actuals. Here's how well you did. Do
you does the state owe you money? do you
owe the state money back? So the first
thing was supplemental appropriations
piece. So the colleges, the 50 colleges,
we thought we were going to need an
additional 38 to $40 million. Then our
expectation got to about $48 million.
When all of the outcomes for the 50
colleges came forward were certified by
the state, the state owed us $89.5
million. Uh and by by us, the 50
colleges, not us individually. I wish.
Um, but we performed well. We performed
well and I asked Vice President Flores
to let me know when that money was wired
to the college, but we we got about a $4
million um wire to the college based on
the actual outcomes that you all
produced. So, that was the first thing.
We needed that supplemental
appropriations requests approved. Second
thing is full funding for the next
bianium. So the coordinating board based
on our outcomes has projected that we
will see the sector about a 5% increase
in outcomes which means an additional
$140 million to the $2.2 billion that's
distributed to the 50 community
colleges. So that is moving forward.
There's two companion bills that I'll
touch on shortly um that are moving that
forward. And then again, you've heard me
say this repeatedly, we needed to make
sure um that the uh uh that private
institutions were part of this in Texas,
that transfers to private institutions,
Baylor for Mlennon Community College,
etc. So, that is moving
forward. Um we're continuing uh to work
on on uh to scale workforce
partnerships. That's incredibly
important. Again, we're doing a great
job of that. That's why our career
technical education programs continue to
increase. Um, but we're also looking at
um, skills development fund increases as
well as JET, our jobs and education for
Texans increases as well as true uh,
Texas reskilling and upskilling through
education. Uh, state agency workforce
credentials, we're continuing to look at
those and ensuring that we're requiring
the right credential to work in these.
And we have a partnership with the state
on that. And then we need to make sure
that we have access to clinical
rotations. There was a lot of private
schools that were coming in and we were
they were offering to pay the hospitals
for the clinical rotation sites. Uh so
there's legislation to mitigate that. Uh
so that the public uh institutions,
colleges, and universities has have
access to those as well. I'm only going
to talk about three bills. Two are
really good bills. House Bill 2110 and
Senate Bill 1786. These are companion
bills. These are the House Bill 8
cleanup bills. So they they do good
things and they do some things that we
I'm got to be very transparent about. So
they clean up some of those the private
school transfers, um all of those kinds
of things, but they also um when we
started this in the 23 session, we were
looking at a 10-year window and all of
our credentials had a return on
investment in those 10 years.
Well, we're revising and we're
continuing to work on this formula. And
so now that's going to be five years for
the associates degrees. Do students see
a return on investment within five
years? And they there's a complicated
formula looks at aid that students
receive, but also looks at what high
school diploma earners earn, statewide
average. and the investment or the the
program has to show that it is a um hold
my if it's for me I'm not available. Um
but we have to we have to show uh that
the these degree earners earn at least
$30,000 which is the statewide average.
So I'm going to share with you we're
going to see a number of associate
degrees that are going to fall from
funding. So, about um 16 SIP codes and
they don't quite make it within that
5-year time frame. We're not going to
stop offering those. We're going to work
harder on a couple of things. We'll
still receive credit if the student
transfers. So, we want to make sure that
they transfer. Uh and we're going to try
to work as a sector to improve and
finish, get those students to finish
faster. Um and so that's what we're
going to work on with those areas. And
it's a fluid system. So if next year all
of a sudden we see that those areas are
going less than five years, they'll come
back to the funding mechanism. Now I've
also shared with Dr. Smith and his team
that short-term credentials by 2027
session, we're going to have a time
frame that we'll look at those
short-term credentials to see if those
are paying off for those students. Um
whether they're level one certificates
or OSAs and
ICLC's. So those are the that's the good
bill. Um a bill of concern for me is
Senate Bill
37. It's it's it has significant concern
for me. It actually has significant
concern for the board as well. Um what
Senate Bill 37 aims it what its goal is
it aims to shift power from faculty to
governing boards. I can assure you Dr.
Bham that Judge Hagerty and his
colleagues they don't want that
responsibility.
Um this from my perspective is very much
going from local control to controlling
the
locals. Um I I I have real concerns. It
shifts a lot of responsibilities from
our faculty senate um to the governing
board and to me. I don't want that
responsibility. Uh I don't want to say
Dr. Burnham, you're the chair of faculty
senate. That's what the bill says that I
would have to pick the officers. Um
that's that to me is not my
responsibility. That to me is the
faculty's responsibility. I can assure
you regardless of the outcome of Senate
Bill 37 that Dr. Smith and I have a firm
belief in shared governance. The board
understands that belief in shared
governance and the college will continue
to move forward in that fashion. We will
comply with whatever laws passed but
we're hopeful that this gets mitigated.
Um, a little bit about the community
college sector. We are once again the
largest sector of higher education in
the state of Texas. So, we've recovered
a lot. We're not quite to where we were
in 19, but we've recovered a lot.
Amongst the 50 community colleges, we're
well over 700,000 students. We awarded
the latest data available, well over
125,000 degrees and certificates. uh and
we provide
96% of all of the state's CTE
credentials. So the Texas State
Technical Colleges and the Lamars, they
provide the state 4% of those
credentials. So we need to make sure
that our legislature understands us and
that the role that we play in the state.
So we've made sure that they understand
that. Now, it wouldn't be uh appropriate
if I didn't at least acknowledge some um
recognitions
So, first uh the VI campus specific um
you see um award winners. Uh we have to
get a picture of Oscar Alcantar. Um but
he was the February 25 um employee of
the month. We had uh Jamie Wilson in
November, Edmundo Mononttoya in December
and Robert Mahia in March. And so
certainly thrilled with that. You heard
me say this earlier. Um I cannot thank
Dr. Escamia for the great work that she
did leading um the engineering academy
in partnership with UTEP. She is the
president's excellence award uh winner
and welldeserved. Um Laura Lee Amiss is
a faculty excellence award winner. She
is the mini Stevens Piper award winner.
Uh Dr. Carmen Castillo Atar uh is a
counselor and professor at the Viveete
campus as well as Northwest. She is an
outstanding faculty achievement award
winner as is Miss Chuka right here from
the Vive campus. An outstanding faculty
award winner. So
congratulations. Um absolutely. Yes.
Welld
deserved. Uh Laura Ericson Alvarado is a
speech professor. She's an outstanding
faculty award recipient from Mission Del
Paso campus. Uh Wendy Alvidres uh is a
dental hygienist uh at faculty member at
the Rio Grande campus. So kudos to her.
Uh and then our outstand adjunct uh 2025
adjunct excellence award winner James
Finquest, a government faculty member at
Trans Mountain
campus. And then finally um we have
Edward Lawrence, an art faculty member
at the Trans Mountain. So certainly
thrilled and excited for our faculty
award winners. Um something that um
cabinet came to me with that we were
able to move forward with the board
unanimously supported was that our staff
will receive um the same award that our
wonderful faculty receive a small award
award to show the gratitude of the
institution uh for our our faculty as
well as our staff. So our CSA and PSA
employees of the year will also receive
this. Those are Doug Shurmer
um who is an an IT um um profess a
systems manager in IT. He's the
full-time professional staff member of
the year. Monica Tarin, uh part-time
professional staff member, a graphics
designer um for marketing and community
relations. Uh Timothy Archett, he's a
full-time classified staff member of the
year. Welld deserved. Absolutely. And
then finally, uh Margaret Torres. uh at
one of our uh staff members at the
Mission Del Baso campus. Um we were able
to get the picture with them. That's uh
Smith and I, Dr. Smith and I on the
bookends. We just like to be in
pictures. Uh the award winners are
between us. Um we will recognize them on
May the 2nd and certainly excited about
that as
well. Um one more announcement. Um we
have EPCC night at the at the ballpark
at at Chihuahua Stadium. You notice I
find ways not to say the name of the
stadium. Um, that'll be held on April
the 26th. That'll be held on April the
26th. You can get there at like
6:45ish. Um, because at 6:35 I'm uh I
played baseball a long time ago. We'll
see if I can still get it to home plate
without bouncing it. Uh, I'm sure I'm
going to curse myself. So, if I bounce
it, everyone have mercy. Uh, so
certainly excited about that. And so
please I'd ask everyone um to join us if
you
can. I cannot thank you all enough for
the great work that you do on a regular
basis every single day. You bring it uh
you do it for the right reasons. Uh all
on behalf of the students that we're
privileged to serve and the community
that we are a part of. So thank you for
the great work. Um really appreciate
that. Uh Belle, were you going to do
your drawings now?
jobs. Thank you all so much. Bel
[Applause]